libRQII/combatAction/README.md, before:

# Combat Action (CA) Management

CA is managed using the property *combatStatus* 
- baseCa depends on DEX & INT charac
- Total CA is composed of baseCA + bonusCA + weaponCA + magicCA
- cf [RQ_Human Data model](../../dataModel/RQ_Human.md).

CA is modified
- When a PNJ is created / updated (i.e following an improvement session)
- During a combat

## combatLog Token

Principles :
- we can have multiple combatLog token on a map in order to keep combat history.
- However there can be only one currentCombat at a time for a token on a map.
 - this means that the currentCombatStatus on a token is linked to combatLog token
 - in the initiative list we should NOT have token with different combatLog ID -> if it happens we should display a waring and ask the GM to :
 - start / reset a new combat for all token
 - reset the combat status of the token that are not in the currentCombat

 Data Structures :

combat : property of a combatLog Token
 ```
 {"status":"current","desc":"Farm Attack PJ1","cycle":1,"mr":1,"initRoll":1}
 ```

 Combat logEntry (sub json of combatLog property)
  ```
 {"tokenId":"-","logType":"proactiveAction","mr":1,"cycle":1,"logMsg":"Attack","logComment":"test comment after log entry creation","serverTime":""}
 ```
-  *logType* : proactiveAction, reactiveAction, changeAfterAction, declareAction, globalEvent 
- *logComment* : used to add some more information after the log has been added

### Start / Reset a combat
- this action :
	- look for any existing combatLog token on the current map with status = "current" in *combat* Property. And update their status to "old".
	- create a new combatToken on the currentMap based on the token *CombatLog_TPL* defined on map *_Main_AE*.
	- reset all CA, MR and Cycle values for the token that are in the initiative list.
	
```
[h: <!-- Archive previous combat Token-->]
[h: globalCombat = getProperty("combat",clogTokenId)]
[h: globalCombat = json.set(globalCombat,"status","old")]
[h: archiveDesc =  "(OLD)"+json.get(globalCombat,"desc")]
[h: globalCombat = json.set(globalCombat,"desc","Farm Attack PJ1")]
```
### Token log relationship

The same macro (*libRQII/combatAction/addCombatLogEntry*) is also used to manage another log (tokenLog), specific to a token.
- cf [token property management readme](../tokenPropertyManagement/README.md).

In order to log an action on both the *combatLog* and the *tokenLog* the *addCombatLogEntry* macro must be called with an additional param set to 1. 

As for example in the *updateCombatProactive* macro

```
[h, if (action == "firstCast"), code:{
    [h: "<!-- We log also to the tokenLog -->"]
    [h: addCombatLogEntry(tokenId,"proactiveAction",logMsg,logComment,"1")]
  };{
    [h: addCombatLogEntry(tokenId,"proactiveAction",logMsg,logComment)]
  }]
```

## Combat Status
When this structure evolves it must be patched on all token, to do this use the macro :
- cf [patchPropCombatStatus](../tokenPropertyManagement/patchPropCombatStatus.rqm)
Process is described inside the macro.

Don't forget also to change the macro [updateGlobalCombat](./updateGlobalCombat.rqm) that reset the Combat Status.

## CA creation / update
The following macro are involved
- *initToken* : it define a default value (set to 0) for all. These values are wrong (a.k.a not calculated based on DEX & INT) but will be updated when charac will be modified later.
- *sheetManagement/updateCharac* : recompute baseCA (following a charc update) and recompute ccCA by calling the function macro combatAction/computeCcCA
- *combatAction/computeCcCA* : function to recompute ccCA,
- *editSheet* : 
  - change button call updateCharac
  - Update magic CA button call computeCcCA function

For the moment improvement forms doesn't update CA since it enable only skill improvement not charac.

editSheet
## CA Management during a Combat

### lostProCA principle

If lostProCA>0 the player can't take any proactive action : 
 - this condition is evaluated in *editCombatAction* , it sets the flag *showNoProactiveAction*, which results in enabling the player to only choose the *Delay* (cf proactive action desc in xwiki).
 
 Logic with *Delay* + *lostProcCA*
 - If the player try to interrupt, the *editComabtAction* will still only show the delay action when lostProCA > 0
 - At the end of a cycle, if turn status = *Delay*, the *resetDelayTurn* function is called and will decrement *lostProCA*
	- cf *updateGlobalCombat* for this implementation.
- Note : after choosing *delay*, the token may still use reactive ation which will also decrement "lostProCA*. If he use all its CA its status will became *out* instead of *delay*, so *resetDelayTuen* will no be triggered (otherwise it would have created an issue by removing an extra *lostProCA* without having any Ca left !)


## openCombat.rqm
- open the combat window and put all the token that are in the initiative list / window in a table
- provide global button to manage the comabt phase (next cycle & mr, reste,...)
- enable to open the combat action window on a specific token
  - only one action combat window at a time for a specific token, does not support to open two windows in parrallel

```
Logic - Mermaid Diagram
graph LR
    A[openCombat] -->|tokens - from getInitiativeList | B(editCombat)
    B -->B1(refresh lnk)
    B1 -->A
    B -->B2[/Roll Init Btn/]
    B2 -->|tokens,rollinit|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B3[/Next Cycle Btn/]
    B3 -->|tokens,nxtcycle|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B4[/Next MR Btn/]
    B4 -->|tokens,nxtmr|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B5[/Start Reset Btn/]
    B5 -->|tokens,reset|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B6[/Act Btn/]
    B6 -->|tokenId,msg|C2[openCombatAction]
	C1 -->A
	C1 -->C2
```
![openCombat Mgt flow](../../assets/doc/openCombat.png?raw=true)

## openCombatAction.rqm

* they are described in https://www.inyanga.me/xwiki/bin/view/Rq/MapTool/MaptoolCombat/#HTableaudesactions
```
Logic - Mermaid Diagram
graph LR
    A[openCombatAction] -->|tokenId| B(editCombatAction)
	B -->B1[/Active action buttons/]
	B1 -->|tokenId,action|C1(updateCombatProactive)
	B -->B2[/Reactive action buttons/]
	B2 -->|tokenId,action|C2(updateCombatReactive)
	B -->B3[/Status buttons/]
	B3 -->|tokenId,action|C4(updateCombat)
	B -->B4[/Damage heal button/]
	B4 -->|tokenId|C3(openAPHP)
	B -->B5[/Change carac button/]
	B5 -->|tokenId|C5(openHumCombatAttr)
	B -->B6[/Edit combat status/]
	B6 -->|tokenId|C5(setTokenCombatStatus)
```
![openCombatAction Mgt flow](../../assets/doc/openCombatAction.png?raw=true)

## UDF for this module

| Function | Desc |
| ---- | ---- |
| processReactiveCA | UDF : decrease remaining CA and increase nb of reactive CA spent.<br> Update the state & turnStatus if token is out of CA.|
| another UDF | |

Commit message:

add SR bonus and malus management cf #68

libRQII/combatAction/README.md, after:

# Combat Action (CA) Management

CA is managed using the property *combatStatus* 
- baseCa depends on DEX & INT charac
- Total CA is composed of baseCA + bonusCA + weaponCA + magicCA
- cf [RQ_Human Data model](../../dataModel/RQ_Human.md).

CA is modified
- When a PNJ is created / updated (i.e following an improvement session)
- During a combat

## combatLog Token

Principles :
- we can have multiple combatLog token on a map in order to keep combat history.
- However there can be only one currentCombat at a time for a token on a map.
 - this means that the currentCombatStatus on a token is linked to combatLog token
 - in the initiative list we should NOT have token with different combatLog ID -> if it happens we should display a waring and ask the GM to :
 - start / reset a new combat for all token
 - reset the combat status of the token that are not in the currentCombat

 Data Structures :

combat : property of a combatLog Token
 ```
 {"status":"current","desc":"Farm Attack PJ1","cycle":1,"mr":1,"initRoll":1}
 ```

 Combat logEntry (sub json of combatLog property)
  ```
 {"tokenId":"-","logType":"proactiveAction","mr":1,"cycle":1,"logMsg":"Attack","logComment":"test comment after log entry creation","serverTime":""}
 ```
-  *logType* : proactiveAction, reactiveAction, changeAfterAction, declareAction, globalEvent 
- *logComment* : used to add some more information after the log has been added

### Start / Reset a combat
- this action :
	- look for any existing combatLog token on the current map with status = "current" in *combat* Property. And update their status to "old".
	- create a new combatToken on the currentMap based on the token *CombatLog_TPL* defined on map *_Main_AE*.
	- reset all CA, MR and Cycle values for the token that are in the initiative list.
	
```
[h: <!-- Archive previous combat Token-->]
[h: globalCombat = getProperty("combat",clogTokenId)]
[h: globalCombat = json.set(globalCombat,"status","old")]
[h: archiveDesc =  "(OLD)"+json.get(globalCombat,"desc")]
[h: globalCombat = json.set(globalCombat,"desc","Farm Attack PJ1")]
```
### Token log relationship

The same macro (*libRQII/combatAction/addCombatLogEntry*) is also used to manage another log (tokenLog), specific to a token.
- cf [token property management readme](../tokenPropertyManagement/README.md).

In order to log an action on both the *combatLog* and the *tokenLog* the *addCombatLogEntry* macro must be called with an additional param set to 1. 

As for example in the *updateCombatProactive* macro

```
[h, if (action == "firstCast"), code:{
    [h: "<!-- We log also to the tokenLog -->"]
    [h: addCombatLogEntry(tokenId,"proactiveAction",logMsg,logComment,"1")]
  };{
    [h: addCombatLogEntry(tokenId,"proactiveAction",logMsg,logComment)]
  }]
```

## Combat Status
When this structure evolves it must be patched on all token, to do this use the macro :
- cf [patchPropCombatStatus](../tokenPropertyManagement/patchPropCombatStatus.rqm)
Process is described inside the macro.

Don't forget also to change the macro [updateGlobalCombat](./updateGlobalCombat.rqm) that reset the Combat Status.

## CA creation / update
The following macro are involved
- *initToken* : it define a default value (set to 0) for all. These values are wrong (a.k.a not calculated based on DEX & INT) but will be updated when charac will be modified later.
- *sheetManagement/updateCharac* : recompute baseCA (following a charc update) and recompute ccCA by calling the function macro combatAction/computeCcCA
- *combatAction/computeCcCA* : function to recompute ccCA,
- *editSheet* : 
  - change button call updateCharac
  - Update magic CA button call computeCcCA function

For the moment improvement forms doesn't update CA since it enable only skill improvement not charac.

editSheet
## CA Management during a Combat

### lostProCA principle

If lostProCA>0 the player can't take any proactive action : 
 - this condition is evaluated in *editCombatAction* , it sets the flag *showNoProactiveAction*, which results in enabling the player to only choose the *Delay* (cf proactive action desc in xwiki).
 
 Logic with *Delay* + *lostProcCA*
 - If the player try to interrupt, the *editComabtAction* will still only show the delay action when lostProCA > 0
 - At the end of a cycle, if turn status = *Delay*, the *resetDelayTurn* function is called and will decrement *lostProCA*
	- cf *updateGlobalCombat* for this implementation.
- Note : after choosing *delay*, the token may still use reactive ation which will also decrement "lostProCA*. If he use all its CA its status will became *out* instead of *delay*, so *resetDelayTuen* will no be triggered (otherwise it would have created an issue by removing an extra *lostProCA* without having any Ca left !)

## StrikeRank

Used when rolling initiative in a combat.
Modified :
- when INT or DEX change
- when armor penalty change
- when SR Bonuy or Malus change

- Cf issue #68 for a list of all macro involved with this property

## openCombat.rqm
- open the combat window and put all the token that are in the initiative list / window in a table
- provide global button to manage the comabt phase (next cycle & mr, reste,...)
- enable to open the combat action window on a specific token
  - only one action combat window at a time for a specific token, does not support to open two windows in parrallel

```
Logic - Mermaid Diagram
graph LR
    A[openCombat] -->|tokens - from getInitiativeList | B(editCombat)
    B -->B1(refresh lnk)
    B1 -->A
    B -->B2[/Roll Init Btn/]
    B2 -->|tokens,rollinit|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B3[/Next Cycle Btn/]
    B3 -->|tokens,nxtcycle|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B4[/Next MR Btn/]
    B4 -->|tokens,nxtmr|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B5[/Start Reset Btn/]
    B5 -->|tokens,reset|C1(updateGlobalCombat)
	B -->B6[/Act Btn/]
    B6 -->|tokenId,msg|C2[openCombatAction]
	C1 -->A
	C1 -->C2
```
![openCombat Mgt flow](../../assets/doc/openCombat.png?raw=true)

## openCombatAction.rqm

* they are described in https://www.inyanga.me/xwiki/bin/view/Rq/MapTool/MaptoolCombat/#HTableaudesactions
```
Logic - Mermaid Diagram
graph LR
    A[openCombatAction] -->|tokenId| B(editCombatAction)
	B -->B1[/Active action buttons/]
	B1 -->|tokenId,action|C1(updateCombatProactive)
	B -->B2[/Reactive action buttons/]
	B2 -->|tokenId,action|C2(updateCombatReactive)
	B -->B3[/Status buttons/]
	B3 -->|tokenId,action|C4(updateCombat)
	B -->B4[/Damage heal button/]
	B4 -->|tokenId|C3(openAPHP)
	B -->B5[/Change carac button/]
	B5 -->|tokenId|C5(openHumCombatAttr)
	B -->B6[/Edit combat status/]
	B6 -->|tokenId|C5(setTokenCombatStatus)
```
![openCombatAction Mgt flow](../../assets/doc/openCombatAction.png?raw=true)

## UDF for this module

| Function | Desc |
| ---- | ---- |
| processReactiveCA | UDF : decrease remaining CA and increase nb of reactive CA spent.<br> Update the state & turnStatus if token is out of CA.|
| another UDF | |
