dataModel/RQ_Lib.md, before:

## RQ_Lib

### combat

Keep track of MR & Cycle
```
combat = {"mr":1,"cycle":1,"initRoll":1}
```

* **mr** : current MR nb
* **cycle** : current Cycle nb within an MR
* **initRoll** : nb of initiatvie roll done during the combat

### damageMod
JSON Array to define damage modifier. Base on range of size 5 of (STR+SIZ).
Index is based on the formula : 
- if (STR+SIZ) =< 50) : newDamageModIndex = ceil((newSTR + newSIZ)/5)-1
- if (STR+SIZ > 50) : newDamageModIndex = ceil((newSTR + newSIZ)/10)+4
```
damageMod = ["-1d8","-1d6","-1d4","-1d2","0","+1d2","+1d4","+1d6","+1d8","+1d10","+1d12","+2d6","+1d8+1d6","+2d8","+1d10+1d8","+2d10","+2d10+1d12","+2d10+1d4"]
```

### Spell DB

```
{
    "heal": {
	    "displayname": "Heal",
        "type": "common",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
        "lnk": "Rq/SpellBook#HHeal"
    },
	"protection": {
	    "displayname": "Protection",
        "type": "common",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
		"lnk": "Rq/SpellBook#HProtection"
    }
}
```
####Divine
```
{
    "absorption": {
	    "displayname": "Absorption",
        "type": "divine",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
        "lnk": "Rq/SpellBookDivine#HAbsorption"
    },
	"animateUndead": {
	    "displayname": "Animate Undead",
        "type": "divine",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
		"lnk": "Rq/SpellBookDivine#HAnimateUndead"
    }
}
```
* name : spell name (must be unique) i.e detectWater
  * displayname : i.e detect (water)
  * type : common, divine, sorcery, draconic, spirit
  * grimoire : grimoire id, cult id
  * cult :
  * magnitude :
  * lnk : spell lnk in wiki
  
```  
commonSpellDb =
```

Commit message:

update draconic and sorcery spell edition

dataModel/RQ_Lib.md, after:

## RQ_Lib

### combat

Keep track of MR & Cycle
```
combat = {"mr":1,"cycle":1,"initRoll":1}
```

* **mr** : current MR nb
* **cycle** : current Cycle nb within an MR
* **initRoll** : nb of initiatvie roll done during the combat

### damageMod
JSON Array to define damage modifier. Base on range of size 5 of (STR+SIZ).
Index is based on the formula : 
- if (STR+SIZ) =< 50) : newDamageModIndex = ceil((newSTR + newSIZ)/5)-1
- if (STR+SIZ > 50) : newDamageModIndex = ceil((newSTR + newSIZ)/10)+4
```
damageMod = ["-1d8","-1d6","-1d4","-1d2","0","+1d2","+1d4","+1d6","+1d8","+1d10","+1d12","+2d6","+1d8+1d6","+2d8","+1d10+1d8","+2d10","+2d10+1d12","+2d10+1d4"]
```

### Spell DB

- Simplification : All spell use the same data model. Not needed attribute are left empty.
- When added to a token, they keep the same structure. On a token. magnitude can be different from default value

```
{
    "heal": {
	    "displayname": "Heal",
        "type": "common",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
        "lnk": "Rq/SpellBook#HHeal"
    },
	"protection": {
	    "displayname": "Protection",
        "type": "common",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
		"lnk": "Rq/SpellBook#HProtection"
    }
}
```
####Divine
```
{
    "absorption": {
	    "displayname": "Absorption",
        "type": "divine",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
        "lnk": "Rq/SpellBookDivine#HAbsorption"
    },
	"animateUndead": {
	    "displayname": "Animate Undead",
        "type": "divine",
        "grimoire": "",
		"cult" : "",
        "magnitude": 1,
		"lnk": "Rq/SpellBookDivine#HAnimateUndead"
    }
}
```
* name : spell name (must be unique) i.e detectWater
  * displayname : i.e detect (water)
  * type : common, divine, sorcery, draconic, spirit
  * grimoire : grimoire id, cult id
  * cult :
  * magnitude :
  * lnk : spell lnk in wiki
  
```  
commonSpellDb =
```
